Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.A programming language is a formal language, which comprises a set of instructions used to produce various kinds of output. Programming languages are used to create programs that implement specific algorithms.
Example:  C++, Java, python etc.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. Java Development Kit contains below components -
     1.The Runtime Interpreter - The Java runtime interpreter (java) is a stand-alone version of the Java interpreter built into the HotJava browser. The runtime interpreter provides the support to run Java executable programs in compiled, bytecode format.
     2.The Compiler - The Java compiler (javac) is used to compile Java source code files into executable Java bytecode classes. In Java, source code files have the extension .java.
     3.The Applet Viewer - AppletViewer is a standalone command-line program from Sun to run Java applets. Appletviewer is generally used by developers for testing their applets before deploying them to a website. As a Java developer, it is a preferred option for running Java applets that do not involve the use of a web browser.
     4.The Debugger -Debugging is the routine process of locating and removing computer program bugs, errors or abnormalities, which is methodically handled by software programmers via debugging tools. Debugging checks, detects and corrects errors or bugs to allow proper program operation according to set specifications.
     5.The Class File Disassembler- The javap command disassembles one or more class files. Its output depends on the options used. If no options are used, javap prints out the package, protected, and public fields and methods of the classes passed to it. javap prints its output to stdout.
     6.The Header and Stub File Generator - javah produces C header files and C source files from a Java class. These files provide the connective glue that allow your Java and C code to interact.),
     7.The Documentation Generator - The Javadoc™ tool parses the declarations and documentation comments in a set of Javasource files and produces a corresponding set of HTML pages describing (by default) the public and protected classes, nested classes (but not anonymous inner classes), interfaces, constructors, methods, and fields.
     8.Applet Demos - JDK 1.4 Demo Applets. example1.html. Running an applet in a browser requires the Java TMPlug-in be installed. The AppletViewer is provided with the JDK, ...)
     9.API Source Code- Application Programming Interface (API) is a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other. It's the messenger that delivers your request to the provider that you're requesting it from and then delivers the response back to you)
   Source code is the actual code that is executed. It includes code that is interpreted (ex: Java) and code that is compiled and executed (ex: C++)

What is IDE?
A. Integrated Development Environment

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse, IntelliJ, BlueJ, jEdit, jGRASP etc

Explain the entire java life cycle.

what is class?

What is object?

What is the entry point of an application?

Why main is static?

Which class is the superclass of all classes?

What is difference between path and classpath variables?

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
what is Access Specifier?
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
What is final, finally and finalize?
What is a constructor ?
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
What is JVM stand for ?
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









